docs - sql logic (#22460)
metabase/metabase: docs/troubleshooting-guide/sql-logic.md

2. Check the [table below](#how-joins-filter-out-unmatched-rows) to see if you are missing rows because of your join type.
3. Check your join conditions in the `ON` clause. For example:
    ```sql
    # The join condition below will remove:
    # All rows from table A where key_a = "foo"
    # All rows from table B where key_b = "foo"

    SELECT *
    FROM table_a
    JOIN table_b
    ON key_a = key_b
    AND key_b <> "foo"
    ```
4. Check if your `WHERE` clause is interacting with your `JOIN` clause. For example:
    ```sql
    # The WHERE clause below will remove:
    # All rows from table A where key_a = "foo"
    # All rows from table B where key_b = "foo"

    SELECT *
    FROM table_a
    JOIN table_b
    WHERE key_b <> "foo"
    ```
5. If you want to *add* rows to your query result to fill in data that is empty, zero, or `NULL`, you need to start your JOINs with a table or column that has all the rows you want. Ask your database admin if there’s a table you can use for this, or can create a temporary column using `GENERATE_SERIES`.
    ```sql
    # This result has one row for every day with at least one transaction.

>     SELECT 
>     o.date
>     , SUM(p.price) AS total_sales
>     FROM orders o
>     LEFT JOIN products p
>     ON o.product_id = p.id
>     GROUP BY 1
>     ;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    SELECT 
      o.created_at, 
    SUM(p.price) AS total_sales 
  FROM 
    orders o 
  LEFT JOIN products p ON o.product_id = p.id 
  GROUP BY 
    o.created_at
```

If you include code that uses the Sample Database, might as well make sure it runs.

    # This result has one row for every day, including days with 0 transactions.
    WITH date_series AS (
    GENERATE_SERIES(...)
    )

    SELECT 
    d.date
    , SUM(p.price) AS total_sales
    FROM date_series d
    LEFT JOIN orders o
        ON d.date = o.order_date
    LEFT JOIN products p
        ON o.product_id = p.id
    GROUP BY 1
    ;
    ```
6. If you’re getting an error message, go to [Troubleshooting error messages][troubleshooting-error-messages].
7. If you're still stuck, search or ask the [Metabase community][discourse].

#### How joins filter out unmatched rows
| Join type | Rows that are filtered out |
| --- | --- |
| Table A INNER JOIN Table B | You will lose rows from both table A and table B if the join condition is not met. |
| Table A LEFT JOIN Table B | You will lose rows from table B if the join condition is not met. |
| Table B LEFT JOIN Table A | You will lose rows from table A if the join condition is not met. |
| Table A OUTER JOIN Table B | You will lose rows from both table A and table B if the join condition is met. |
| Table A FULL JOIN Table B | This join does not remove any rows from table A or table B. |

**Explanation**

> Rows can get removed by accident when data gets refreshed in upstream systems or ETL jobs. 

Reviewer: Link to ETL learn article? https://www.metabase.com/learn/analytics/etl-landscape

- [Common problems with SQL joins][common-join-problems] 

#### My aggregations (counts, sums, etc.) are too high.

1. Check if your source tables or upstream queries have [duplicated rows](#my-result-has-duplicated-rows).
2. Check your source tables or upstream queries for rows that should be filtered out.
    - Are you including empty or `NULL` rows in your aggregations?
    - Ask your Metabase admin or data team about business logic that defines invalid, cancelled, or expired records that should be filtered out in queries.
3. If you’re aggregating unique values, check that you’re not double-counting them.
    - Do you need to use `COUNT_DISTINCT` instead of `COUNT`?
    - Are you applying a `SUM` on top of a `COUNT_DISTINCT`?
4. If you’re getting an error message, go to [Troubleshooting error messages][troubleshooting-error-messages].
5. If you’re still stuck, search or ask the [Metabase community][discourse].

#### My aggregations (counts, sums, etc.) are too low.

1. Check if your source tables or upstream queries have [missing rows](#my-result-has-missing-rows).
2. If you’re getting an error message, go to [Troubleshooting error messages][troubleshooting-error-messages].

> 3. If you’re still stuck, search or ask the [Metabase community][discourse].

Reviewer: Do we need each of these community links? Or just one "still stuck?" section at the bottom of the page (or pages if you split this page up).

Author: Yeah I think splitting the sections into new pages is a good idea. In general, I try to put an "exit" point at the end of each set of steps (on a long page) in case the reader doesn't get to the end!

### I don’t know if I’m using a nested query.

You have a nested query if your SQL contains:

- **More than one `SELECT` statement**

    You’re using subqueries.
    
- **A `WITH` clause**
    
    You’re using CTEs (Common Table Expressions).
    
- **Notation that looks like `{{ variable_name }}`** in your `FROM` or `WITH` clause.
    
    You have a Metabase SQL variable that references a saved question or model.
    
**Further reading**

- [How Metabase executes SQL queries][how-metabase-executes-sql-queries]
- [How Metabase executes SQL variables][how-metabase-executes-sql-variables]

### I don’t know how to get the schema for my nested query

**Subqueries** or **CTEs**

You’ll need to manually run SELECT statements in a new SQL editor. Use the `LIMIT` clause to get a small sample of data.

**Metabase saved question or model**

> Go to the saved question or model from the variables panel or by pasting the ID number into the Metabase search bar. Convert it to a SQL question and run the query with a `LIMIT` clause to get a small sample of data.

Reviewer: You can limit the results in the query builder.

Author: I'm assuming that the SQL editor is being used in context of this troubleshooting topic :)
